FLEP (FLExible Patcher) aka TREP2
v 1.1.41 - 30 Jan 2013


CONTENTS

1.  What is this?
2.  Features
3.  What's new?
4.  Which versions of TOMB4.EXE are supported?
5.  Credits and thanks



1. What is this?

Once upon a time, some people wrote wonderful software called TREP. Then, some other guy wrote even more wonderful
software called NGLE. Time passed, and both of these are now somewhat stopped developing. Despite the fact that NGLE
now includes almost every TREP feature that was ever created, there are some that are not included. For those,
we now introduce new, second generation of TREP - FLEP.

Theoretically, FLEP is fully compatible with current NG Tomb4, it does not interfere with NG DLL when properly used.

Basically, FLEP is revamped and empowered DRACO custom patch module from classic TREP version. It now allows you
to make UNLIMITED amount of patches, parameters, create interconnected patch entries with different binary targets,
independent conditional behaviour options and additional data types. Source code got major refactoring and
re-writes, so most of old limits and slow-downs were eliminated.

Moreover, FLEP now allows you to edit not only Tomb4.exe file and / or TRLE-related binaries, it is now completely
independent patching engine, which can be used to edit ANY binary file.


2. Features

01) Almost completely rewritten and refactored source code. As result, application works much faster.
02) New interpreter of static patches. It now supports not only raw hex strings, but also some different commands
    which alter patching behaviour - SetFileLength and Fill.
03) Allows to simultaneously patch numerous binaries.
04) Supports additional parameter types - strings, float, 8/16 bits and A,B,C byte sequences (useful for RGB values).
05) Supports unlimited amount of patches, also unlimited amount of offsets and parameters for each.
06) Each parameter can now have several offsets, this way you can simultaneously change similar values in binary
    with just only one parameter slot.
07) Each parameter now has its own conditional behaviour switch.


3. What's new?


1.1.41  - RGB data type modified to support scattered offsets for each colour byte (divide them with "|" symbol).

1.1.38  - Minor code refactoring, fixed wrong patch set / preset handling.

1.1.31  - Quick overflow fix for last bit of bits(16) datatype.

1.1.30  - Hex types replaced with new bit types, modified parameter view a bit to support multi-column mode, 
          added copy function, minor interface fixes and speed-ups.

1.0.86  - Fixed param list killing with escape button, re-done patching method with kernel32 routines (faster),
          fixed various bugs with moving patch up/down, added minimize button, added color picker for RGB param.

1.00b   - Beta version. Fixed various UI bugs, changed preset format a bit.

1.00a   - Initial alpha version. 


4. Which versions of TOMB4.EXE are supported?

Currently, FLEP doesn't support any specific executable version, it is only a shell for patching ANY binary.
Custom patch databases for old tomb4.exe or TRNG version should be downloaded seperately.

Good old "classic tomb4.exe" can be still patched with legacy (TREP 0.76x) versions, it is still available for
download and will be supported for some time.


5. CREDITS AND THANKS

Delta, for influence and inspiration!
Ceamonks890, for making this thread: http://www.tombraiderforums.com/showthread.php?t=179050
Ensi aka Pyuaumch for writing original TREP.
Paolone for NGLE/TRNG.
